Good afternoon everyone.
I'm Travis Brown.
I'm the graphics and imaging
evangelist here at Apple.
I want to welcome you to session 509,
which is ColorSync & Digital Media.
Before we jump into session content,
I want to just sort of take
a moment to sort of reiterate
the fact that Apple feels that
color is incredibly important
to our developers and our users.
This is because we really see color as
a platform advantage on the Macintosh.
Color management really has some of
its genesis in the work that was done
at Apple with the original ColorSync.
We've also extended that to include
many major companies in the founding
of the International Color Consortium.
So color management is
alive and well at Apple.
It's something we believe
is critically important.
We want to have the experience
as seamless as possible.
For example,
last year we spoke a lot about
how we've integrated ColorSync
in conjunction with Quartz 2D,
which is Mac OS X's new drawing API.
This integration allows users
to get what they expect.
The fact that if they
see color on the screen,
they can see it.
They can print it,
which is something sort of striven
for by all the color scientists and
color management experts out there.
But it's something that's a
really difficult problem to solve.
And now that we've done that degree of
integration and that kind of capabilities
are available in the operating system,
we've started to look at other
opportunities for ColorSync.
And that's one of the sort
of features of the session.
We're going to be talking about
not only ColorSync with regards
to what's going on with ColorSync,
some fine point details on
ColorSync and how it's integrated
in the operating system,
but also we're going to be showing
off doing things with video.
And color management.
Doing things with video and
color management in real time,
which those really
didn't all go together.
And we're going to show in
terms of they're sort of
mutually exclusive concepts.
And that's what we're
going to show here today.
So what I want to do is
invite David Hayward,
ColorSync engineer to the stage
to take you through the session.
Thank you, Travis.
Well, welcome all today to the
ColorSync & Digital Media session.
We have a lot to talk about today.
Again, we'll be talking especially about
digital media at the end of the session,
but there's several other things
I'd like to talk about as well.
First of all,
I want to start the presentation with
a general overview of ColorSync and
color management in general for those
of you who may be new to the concept.
Following that,
I want to go to describe a more
elaborate example of the chain of
operations that can occur on an
image on Mac OS X now that it's
fully integrated into the system and
how to avoid some common pitfalls.
After that,
I'll be giving an update on ColorSync
and Jaguar and what changes we've
made for the upcoming release.
Following that,
Luke will be coming up on stage and
talking about ColorSync and the Quartz.
And then lastly,
I'll be talking about the exciting stuff
of ColorSync and live action video.
So first of all,
an overview of ColorSync for
those of you who are new.
Today we're all blessed with the problem
of having a wide variety of color devices
that we all work with day in and day out.
These, you know, all sorts of devices,
digital cameras, digital scanners,
LCD displays, tube displays,
inkjet printers, presses,
all of these devices
work with colors in very,
very different ways.
Different color spaces and all of
them have a different gamut or range
of colors that they can represent.
The problem that this creates is that
it's very difficult for a document
that's created on one device to look
correct when outputted on other devices,
which is something we try to do more
and more today as we repurpose content.
So the solution to this
problem is ColorSync,
which provides a complete color
management system in order
to correct color across these
wide and disparate devices.
That said, ColorSync can also be used,
in addition to doing
device color management,
can also be used to do
color special effects.
And that's something I'll be showing
a little bit later when it comes
to talking about digital video.
So ColorSync,
in order to provide this solution
for a wide variety of devices,
is a very open system and extendable.
And it achieves this extensibility
and openness by basing itself
on two open foundations.
The first is the ICC profile format,
and the second are color
management modules,
or CMMs.
I'm going to talk a little
bit about each of these for
those of you who might be new.
ICC Profiles.
What is an ICC Profile?
An ICC Profile is a cross-platform
file format which is defined by
the International Color Consortium.
You can go to their website at
www.color.org and you can get
all the detailed information
about the file format there,
the current and past versions
of the specification.
To summarize briefly
what the file format is,
it's a document that contains data
and tables that transform color
between an individual device's unique
color space into an intermediate
interchange space based on the common
way that humans perceive color.
In general, profiles fall into one
of several classes.
You can have typical classes such
as input for scanner and camera,
display and output classes,
but there's also a couple other
classes that are lesser known,
such as abstract classes
and name profile classes.
Again,
this ICT profile format is designed
to be very broad and flexible.
In addition to being able to
represent a wide range of devices,
it can also represent
standard spaces such as NTSC,
PAL, you name it.
So the other foundation that
ColorSync rests upon that allows
for it to be open and extendable
are color management modules,
or CMMs.
And the CMMs provide the mathematical
engine that does all the color
transformation based on the data
that's found inside profiles.
Now, Apple provides the
default CMM on Mac OS X.
It's very similar to the CMM that
we've shipped in past releases
all the way back to Mac OS 9.
But it's also possible for third parties
to provide their own CMMs if needed.
In general,
this is not that often needed,
but if you have custom solutions that
you want to provide to a specific market,
then it's possible to add a
third-party CMM into ColorSync,
and it'll be used
everywhere in the system.
So now that we've talked
about those basic ingredients,
I want to give a very simplified model
of how ColorSync works in practice.
At the top we have an application,
which some of you may be writing,
and it will use ColorSync.
And it can use ColorSync either
directly or indirectly through other
APIs that are provided on the Mac OS.
But the basic premise is very simple.
The idea is you want to get an image,
a source image, from a file.
And ideally that file will be tagged
with a profile that represents the device
from which that document originated.
As long as that profile
is tagged with a profile,
or as long as that image
then we now know the colorimetry
and the color behavior of the
device from which that came.
This allows us to now display that
image correctly on the user's display.
We do this by determining the
profile for the display and then
setting up a ColorSync transformation
between the source profile,
the camera's profile in this example,
and the user's display profile.
The idea behind this is that now when
the image is displayed on the screen,
it will be a faithful reproduction,
or as faithful as possible,
to the original content, original scene.
A similar process occurs when printing.
In a simplified description,
when it comes time to print,
the original document with its
embedded profile is sent to the
printer where we can determine
what the printer profile is.
And again,
the end result is that when printed,
the document will,
as faithfully as possible,
reproduce the original scene.
This next slide provides a diagram
of how ColorSync fits into the
overall Mac OS X architecture.
And now more than ever,
it's well integrated into the Mac OS X.
As you see at the top,
as you may be familiar
from other presentations,
we have Carbon and Cocoa applications,
both of which can call ColorSync.
You can get a lot of
functionality directly out of
Cocoa or by calling Quartz,
or if you want,
your application can still call
ColorSync directly if you wish,
if you want to provide very specific
functionality to your users.
In either case,
no matter how ColorSync is called,
ColorSync is built up on top
of the Darwin Foundation that's
part of Mac OS X,
and CMMs are loaded
dynamically as needed.
Thank you.
So to finish up the summary
of the overview of ColorSync,
I just want to give a brief
description of the key components
that make up ColorSync on Mac OS X.
First of all,
there's a couple pieces that
provide user interface to users.
First is the ColorSync preference panel,
which provides basic
preferences for novice users.
Secondarily is the ColorSync
utility application,
which provides more
advanced functionality.
Then we have the ColorSync API,
or the ColorSync framework.
On Mac OS X,
this is provided as part of the
application services framework.
ColorSync is made up of about 120 APIs.
In general, these APIs fall into a
couple broad categories.
First category are a set of APIs that
are used for doing basic profile access.
These APIs allow you to read profiles,
write profiles, create new profiles, etc.
Next, there are a set of API that allow
you to search for profiles or
iterate over all the profiles that
are installed on the user's system.
The third category of API are what we
refer to as device integration API.
These were introduced first in
Mac OS X-1 and these provide very
advanced functionality so that
device drivers such as image capture,
display manager and printing can
register devices with ColorSync
and most importantly register
the profiles for these devices.
It is also possible using this API for
calibrators to change the profiles for
each device from the factory profile
that is created for it automatically.
Lastly, there is a set of API for dealing
with what we call color worlds.
A color world is ColorSync's
opaque object that represents a
concatenation of one or more profiles.
Once you've opened profiles,
you can create a color world,
and once you have a color world,
you can match pixels.
and then again, as I mentioned before,
the other key pieces of
ColorSync are CMMs and profiles.
So now that we have a basic understanding
of ColorSync and color management,
I want to go into a
more elaborate example.
And you could argue that this
is a bit of an extreme example,
but to a certain extent it shows how well
ColorSync is integrated into the system,
because for a given document,
it can have a long life and be affected
by multiple parts of the system,
all of which may support ColorSync.
So let me go into a brief description
of a somewhat extreme example.
First of all,
let's say a document begins its life
after it is acquired by the image
capture architecture and a profile
is associated with that document.
After that,
it may be edited by a Carbon application,
which hopefully will preserve
the contents of that profile.
Later on, it might be converted by
a drag-and-drop utility,
which is based on
QuickTime graphics importers.
Later on,
that document could be opened in preview,
where it will be displayed
correctly on the screen.
But when it comes time to print,
then another series of actions occur.
The document will be rastered by courts,
sent through to the printer driver,
and hopefully, if all goes well,
it ends up on the output of your printer.
So this is a long sequence of operations,
and it illustrates just how well
integrated ColorSync is into our system,
because ColorSync can have a place to
operate at each one of these stages.
However, like any good chain,
there is opportunity for
weak links in those chains.
So I want to describe.
a couple problems that are
common and are easy to avoid.
So for one thing,
when an image is acquired
by image capture,
it is often the case that a camera
will not register a profile.
Part of the reason for this is that
it can be difficult to create a
general profile for a camera because
cameras are designed to work in a
wide variety of lighting conditions.
But that said, even so,
it's possible to create general profiles,
and if a camera is being used
in a specific environment,
it's possible to create
a good profile for that.
Obviously,
if you don't have a profile for a camera,
then other stages later on in the
chain will have to make assumptions
based on user preferences for
how to handle untagged data.
Later on, when a document is edited
by a Carbon application or
converted by a QuickTime tool,
it's important that apps must check
for embedded profiles and preserve that
when the document is rewritten to disk.
I'll describe an easy solution to
this problem in the subsequent slide.
Also, when it comes time to print,
the data will be rastered by quartz and
converted to the printer's color space.
But again,
some printers don't register profiles,
and there's some consequences to that
that you should be made aware of,
especially if you're a
printer driver manufacturer.
So let me go into one set of code
examples for how you can avoid
one of these common weak links.
As an example, what I have is a
hypothetical application,
a drag-and-drop application, for example,
that converts a file format from
whatever format it currently is to TIFF.
And it does this by leveraging
the graphics importer-exporter
functionality that's part of QuickTime,
which is a very convenient set of
API that handles all this for you.
So what I have is a basic function,
which is called convertToTIFF,
it takes an input file and will
put the result into an output file.
And the way it works is by
first getting the graphics
importer for the supplied file.
After that,
it creates a destination graphics
exporter component by just looking
for the hard-coded TIFF component.
Obviously,
you could be more elaborate and allow the
user to choose a destination file format,
but for this example,
I just hard-coded TIFF.
Once we have the importer
and exporter component,
we want to connect the
two of these together.
We do that with the next two calls,
which basically tell the exporter
to pull data from the importer
and output it to the file.
It's very handy.
So on this next page,
we have the code that's actually
critical in order to preserve
ColorSync profile information.
And it's actually not a lot of work.
Once you do that, however,
you'll have a utility that works well
in the ColorSync chain of operations.
All I'm doing here is calling the import,
graphics importer,
asking it for the embedded profile,
and then taking that embedded profile
and telling the exporter that this is
the profile to use for the exporter.
If you don't do this,
the profile will be lost.
Once you've made these two short calls,
all you have to do is call
graphics export or do export,
clean up, and everything's done.
One of the other weak links in the
chain that's important to be aware
of is the conversion that occurs
with ColorSync when printing occurs.
It's important to remember that
Quartz matches all color data,
whether it's tagged
with a profile or not,
to the printer's registered color space.
The reason behind this objective is
so that all the data is sent to the
printer in a common color space,
which actually can make it more
convenient for printer drivers.
However, if your printer driver does
not register a profile,
then Quartz will match all the
data to an assumed profile,
which is currently the display profile.
Again, this achieves the objective
of having all data sent to
the profile in a common space,
but one of the caveats is that that color
space will be different from one machine
to another because one machine will have
a different display profile from another.
So this is something to be aware of
if you're writing printer drivers.
After the printer driver
receives the matched data,
several printer drivers will
do additional color management.
They're free to do so,
and that may make a lot of sense.
Again, it's further justification for a
printer driver to register a profile,
because the way most printer drivers
do additional color management
is to have known tables that
convert from an input color space
to their ink-specific color spaces.
And having a known colorimetry
as the input is critical in order
to achieve this effectively.
So the next subject I'd like to
talk about today is an update of
ColorSync for Jaguar and what we've
changed in the upcoming system.
We've made changes in
a couple broad areas.
We've made changes to
the profiles we ship,
some minor changes to the framework,
and the preference pane in the utility.
I'll talk about each of these
in a little bit more detail.
So we've updated some of the profiles
that we ship by default with Mac OS X.
And these are important default
profiles which are often used by
users for data that doesn't have,
or for images that don't have
profiles embedded in them.
So it's important to be
aware of these changes.
For one thing, the generic RGB profile
will be changing slightly.
In the past,
the generic RGB profile was based on the
venerable Apple Color 13-inch display.
And so it was roughly based on P22
phosphor set with a 9300 degree
white point and a 1.8 gamma.
And what we're trying to do
is to make minor changes to
that to make it more standard.
For one, we're changing the
phosphors to be exactly P22.
We're changing the white point to be D65,
which actually is a closer
match to most other profiles.
And we're changing the white points
to be LCD display white points.
And it also avoids the overly
blue cast of tube displays.
The gamma is being left at 1.8 since
this is a long tradition for the Mac.
The generic CMYK profile
has also changed.
was originally based on the
Apple Color LaserWriter printer.
Since that's no longer available,
there's not too much reason keeping
the generic CMYK profile based on it.
Instead,
we're basing the generic CMYK profile
on the standard swap color space.
It's a subsampled version
of the TR-001 swap profile,
which provides nice,
smooth CMYK results with a profile
that's relatively small in size.
We've made lots of minor changes
to the ColorSync framework.
In particular,
one area that we've made some
changes in are in notifications
that are sent out by the framework.
Some of these were
existing notifications,
but I'd like to talk about
them today while we're on
the subject of notifications.
In general, on Mac OS X,
it's a good idea for applications
not to periodically call frameworks
to see if something changed.
When a phone rings,
it's best to wait for it to ring
to pick it up rather than to
periodically lift up the handset to
see if anyone's on the other line,
which is what a lot of
applications do today when it
comes to checking for profiles.
So there are several
notifications that are sent out.
Several of these notifications are sent
out whenever the device drivers notice
a change in state of ColorSync devices.
For example, when you plug in an external
display to a portable,
the display manager will
automatically kick in,
recognize the display,
query its EDID information,
create a profile,
and call ColorSync to say
that a new device with this
profile has been recognized.
This is a really powerful
functionality and it allows us
to get great plug-and-play color.
And your application might want to
be aware that this has occurred.
In order to do this,
you can listen for notifications for
either when a device is recognized,
when it is removed,
or when the profile for
that device changes.
The notification that we've added
most recently is a notification that
is sent whenever the user changes a
setting in the ColorSync prefs pane.
The user changes, for example,
the preferred CMM,
a notification is now sent to
anyone who cares to listen.
To give an example of this in action,
here's a brief code snippet that shows a
common operation that people want to do.
A lot of applications are matching
data to the screen and they need to
know the profile for the main display.
Again,
what a lot of applications have done
in the past is to periodically check
to see if this profile has changed.
Instead,
you can install a notification handler.
This code sample is written in Cocoa.
There's similar code that you could
write that's based on Core Foundation,
which has the same premise
and the same notifications.
In the first function, all we're doing,
we call this early on in the program,
and the key thing here is to call
the NSDistributedNotificationCenter
to get its default center.
This is the center to which all global
messages are sent to all applications.
Once we have that object,
we can tell that object that we want
to listen for a certain notification.
In this example,
we're listening for notifications
whenever a device is added,
removed, or changed.
In any of these cases,
what we want to have happen is we
want to have our function call,
our selector called notification
at the bottom of the screen.
This will be called whenever
these changes occur.
And in this very trivial example,
all that occurs is we call
CMGetDefaultProfileByUseDisplay
to update our global profile.
Another area that we've made
changes in in ColorSync is in
the ColorSync preference pane,
which is probably the first
thing people see about ColorSync.
For one thing,
we've removed the Devices tab.
The Devices tab in the
ColorSync Prefs pane is,
was a legacy tab from our first attempt
in ColorSync to add support for devices.
Since then, we've added the full
device integration layer,
which allows for much more flexibility.
And for this reason,
the old API is supported only
for backward compatibility.
For this reason,
the devices tab in the preferences
pane has also been removed.
Instead, that user functionality can be
found either in specific device UI,
for example, in the monitors preference,
or in the ColorSync utility for
the one-stop shopping location.
The other thing we've removed from
ColorSync's press pane is the ability
to import and export workflows.
We found in actual practice few people
were making use of this functionality,
and to a certain extent its capabilities
were not as needed now on Mac OS X since
we have a multi-user operating
system with multiple preferences.
While on the subject
of the preference pane,
I'll mention to those of
you who may not be aware,
but with all the pop-ups that show
profiles in the preference pane,
we have tooltips.
And those tooltips show you the full
path to the profile so that you can see
what the file name of the profile is.
The other user interface component
that we've made changes in for
Jaguar is ColorSync Utility.
One area of ColorSync Utility
that we always update with every
release is Profile First Aid.
Profile First Aid provides
basic functionality to diagnose
and repair common problems that
are found in many profiles.
It's always a good idea if
your application or printer
driver ships profiles to check
them with Profile First Aid.
Also, if you've come across profiles
that have problems that are not
detected by Profile First Aid,
let us know and we can try to
add it to the next release.
Also, as I mentioned before,
since the ColorSync Devices tab is
removed from the preference pane,
it's now more important than ever to be
aware of the ColorSync Devices browser
that's part of ColorSync Utility.
Again,
this provides one-stop shopping so the
user can see all the ColorSync devices
that are installed in the system,
what their current profiles are,
what their factory profiles are.
And lastly, the feature that's been long
awaiting in ColorSync utility is
the ability to inspect profiles.
This is something we've
had often requested.
So instead of talking about it,
I'll show it in action.
So the long awaited profile inspector.
Again, ColorSync utility looks
much the same as before.
We have profile first aid.
We have the profiles tab,
which shows all the profiles
that are installed in the system.
And then we have the devices tab.
What we can do now, however,
that we couldn't do before,
is we can go on to a profile,
such as generic CMYK,
and now we can actually see
a 3D plot of the profile.
So we can see this.
And what's particularly interesting
is it provides an easy way,
like if you're going
seeing an RGB profile,
we can flip between one RGB profile
and another RGB profile and see
the differences between them.
One thing that's sort of
interesting to note is the gamut
on these two are very close,
but you'll notice that
the grid lines change.
And what that's showing is the different
in the linearity of the two devices.
But there's actually much more to this.
If I go and open this profile
and double click on it,
we now bring up a new window.
So here's the new functionality.
What we see here is the basic
description of the header of the profile,
and then we can look at each of the tags.
For example,
the description tag shows the ASCII name,
Unicode name, and the Mac name.
We can go and edit some of
these tags if we wish to.
See the copyright information,
white point.
What else do we have here?
Here's a viewer for the A to B tag.
We have a description of what the
tag means in human readable form.
So this tag is an intent zero, 8-bit,
device to PCS conversion table.
Bit of a mouthful.
And here's it represented in 3D,
but if you want to see
the actual content,
you can flip through the tabs.
These tabs are the order
in which they're applied.
There's the matrix, the input LUTs,
which in this case are all linear.
We have a set of table values,
so we can see the different table
values for different... while
holding output of the L channel,
for example,
or the A channel for different
values of C and Y or K.
It's always a trick to be able to
represent this information in an easy
fashion since it's multidimensional.
And then the output curves.
Again, this is a simple profile,
so it doesn't have any curves here.
And then lastly, we can see it in 3D.
And we can zoom in, zoom out.
What else do we have?
This is a little interesting.
This is showing the
gamut tag of a profile.
Gamut tags of a profile are
sampled at multiple points,
so the data looks sort
of like the A to B tag,
but because they're sampled,
it has some granularity to it.
The last tag in this profile is the
multi-localized description tag.
This shows you the name of the generic
CMYK profile and all the languages
that Mac OS X is localized for.
And you can even go in here and
change them or edit them if you wish.
So for the most part,
the profile inspector is just a viewer.
There are a few tags that you can edit,
such as the name and most of
the text tags you can edit.
So, a long-awaited feature.
We'll add more to it in the future,
but finally got around to it.
So with that,
I will hand the microphone over to Luke,
who will be talking for a bit
about ColorSync and Quartz.
Thank you, David.
If you attended the last
year's ColorSync session,
you already heard from us that
ColorSync is integrated into Mac OS X.
As it was mentioned on several occasions,
it means that ColorSync also provides
services to other system components.
This is especially important for Quartz,
which is the Mac OS X graphics system
based on the PDF imaging model.
And for the benefit of those who did
not have a chance to be here last year,
I would like to present one more
time an overview of how Quartz solves
the problem of color management by
working together with ColorSync.
Also, I would like to show you how some
of the ColorSync functionality
is accessible through Quartz.
Our objective was to integrate
graphics and color management by
meeting some basic requirements.
First of all,
Quartz needs the ability to composite
different color spaces and opacity.
To meet this requirement,
ColorSync is used to convert data
from different color spaces into
one space selected by Quartz as
a working space for compositing.
This also has to be a scalable
solution which could serve the needs
of a wide variety of applications.
On one end,
the involvement of an application in
color management can be very minimal
and limited just to the use of some
predefined settings provided by Quartz.
On the other end,
an application may need the same full
control over color management as it
does when accessing ColorSync directly.
The other requirements
were color accuracy,
performance, and compatibility with PDF.
In simple terms, Quartz color management
is built around ColorSync,
which is used as an engine to
process color data needed by Quartz.
To better understand this design,
let's review some basic concepts
pertaining to color in PDF and
ColorSync and compare them
with those used in Quartz.
In PDF, color is defined by one
of the known color spaces:
device, calibrated, or ICC based.
As many of you know,
this list reflects the progress of
color management over the years.
Initially,
only device color spaces were known.
And from today's perspective,
we know that these merely recognize
three different process color models.
And because color appearance
is device dependent,
they are the worst choice for
faithful color reproduction
across different devices.
Next, calibrated color was invented,
along with the idea of color conversions
through device-independent spaces.
The advantage of calibrated color was
a significant improvement in color
reproduction over device color spaces.
Later on, calibrated color evolved
into ICC profiles.
which now are the de facto standard
for color characterization among color
professionals and can be embedded in
almost all known color data formats.
In PDF, ICC profiles can be embedded by
the use of ICC-based color space.
Color conversions in PDF can be defined
as a function of the source color space,
destination color space,
and rendering intent.
Similar concepts exist
in ColorSync and ICC.
Color is defined by an ICC profile,
which as we know is the most general
form of color space description.
Color conversions are also
similar to those in PDF,
with an option for adding
intermediate profiles between
the source and destination.
These additional profiles can be
used for a variety of reasons,
such as soft proofing,
color device simulation,
color correction, gamut compression,
special effects, and so forth.
The color model in Quartz is based on a
combination of the PDF and ICC models.
The most important point about
this model is that all color
spaces are expressed internally as
ICC profiles and any color space is
composed of one or more profiles.
This way we can preserve the
PDF concept of a simple match from
source to destination but at the
same time we are able to create
multi-stage color transformations
needed by advanced color management.
And if a need arises to embed
such a color space in PDF,
a sequence of profiles can
be concatenated by ColorSync
into a single profile.
In Quartz, device color spaces are
assigned default profiles,
and PDF calibrated spaces are simply
repackaged into ICC profiles by
using their calibration record.
Quartz also provides special color spaces
for drawing directly to the screen.
DisplayRGB is a color space based
on the ColorSync system profile.
And DisplayGray is a color
space composed of a device link
profile converting gray to RGB,
followed by the system profile.
Another kind are user
default color spaces,
which can be very useful if
an application wants to give
the user a choice of a profile
to be used as a default for a
specific process color model.
These color spaces point directly to the
ColorSync default profiles for documents,
which can be selected by the user
in the ColorSync control panel.
Another simple but important
concept that Quartz inherited from
PDF is color space equivalence.
An implied rule is that color conversions
are required only if the source color
space is different from the destination.
Quartz is using this rule for properly
organize the flow of the color data
through multiple stages of rendering.
It may be important to know that
also the evaluation of color space
equivalence is performed by ColorSync.
Now, let's see how all the ideas
that we discussed come together
in the Quartz drawing model.
There are three main components
involved in this model:
an application generating
the graphics content,
Quartz providing rendering services,
and the destination for
the rasterized data.
In terms of color management,
the application can request
cords to render content in
any of the color spaces.
In the first step,
Quartz will verify the source and
destination color spaces and change
them into ICC profiles if needed.
Then, if required,
ColorSync will convert data
from any of the source color
spaces to the working space.
And finally,
when compositing is completed,
the rasterized data can be
sent to desired destination.
Now, let me show you how convenient
Quartz color management can be for
some more advanced color operations.
For example,
applying special effects can be very
easily achieved simply by adding an
abstract profile to the working space.
Another example could be soft proofing.
The only thing we need to do is to add
the printer profile to the working space.
And this way all color adjustments
defining the printer profile
can be shown on the display.
So far, we have talked about the main
flow of the color data from
the source to the destination
when the content is rasterized.
But there is one more
option possible here.
The content can be spooled
into PDF without rasterizing.
to be handed to the printing
component of the OS,
for example.
But there is important
detail about this data.
All colors will be
tagged in this full PDF,
and the profiles will be
assigned exactly the same way
as they were for asterization.
So this concludes my talk
about ColorSync and Chords.
So I'd like to thank you for
your attention and I'll pass
the microphone back to David.
All right.
Thank you very much, Luke.
So the last section I want to talk
about today is color sync and video.
Most of what we talked about so far is
traditional color sync color management.
And as I outlined earlier,
the premise behind this is to
convert between source devices
and destination devices.
However,
oftentimes with video applications,
there's a different workflow that's used.
More traditional video color
correction involved turning knobs,
whether they be software or hardware,
in order to achieve
desired visual effects.
Both of these models
are valid and useful.
In actuality,
an ideal system would involve
both of these capabilities.
So what we're proposing here is a
system that combines these two models
together into one color sync workflow.
And this workflow uses, first,
an assigned source or embedded
profile in order to abstract out
any differences between one source
video and another source video.
Then the application of one
or more abstractions in order
to achieve visual effects.
And then finally,
the application of a destination profile
so that that can be targeted for output.
There are several
advantages of this model.
For one thing,
abstract profiles can operate in a
perceptually uniform LAB space based on
human perception rather than based on the
peculiar behavior of a specific device.
Abstract profiles can also be archived as
a standard ICC profile for further use.
What is also particularly useful is that
the destination can be changed later.
The manipulations that are
made are not dependent on any
source or destination profile.
This allows the destination to be
changed so that if your content
needs to be retargeted either for
the web or for a DVD or for film,
you can apply a destination
profile at the end that's
applicable to that specific device.
So one question that's
commonly asked when we propose
using ColorSync on video is,
well, does it perform fast enough?
And actually, today, using software-only
solutions and ColorSync,
you actually can achieve adequate
performance for basic preview of video
or certainly adequate performance
of non-real-time offline processing.
And you can get very nice results.
Using OpenGL hardware,
we can actually leverage
hardware on the video card,
which would otherwise be unused,
in order to actually achieve what
we're calling ColorSync in real time.
The idea behind using real-time
ColorSync is to make use of the
per-pixel 3D texture map that's
available on some modern video cards,
such as the GeForce Ti card,
and there's other cards coming out
that also support this capability.
And it actually makes a great case
study for how well ColorSync is
integrated into the Mac OS X system,
because in order to achieve this goal,
we need to bring a lot of technologies
together at the same time.
We need to integrate ColorSync, OpenGL,
QuickTime, Quartz,
in the following matter.
Here's a basic summary for how it works.
First of all, what we want to do is play
QuickTime content onto
a Quartz OpenGL surface,
and what we want to do is attach to
that surface a 3D texture map that's
filled with data that's generated
from a ColorSync color world.
Probably the best thing to do at this
point is to describe this in action,
so I'll switch over and
do a quick demonstration.
Okay.
So what I have here is a little
application I've been working on.
And what it does is it allows you to
open up either still images or movies.
And right now it's just showing black.
I want to go over the
control panel first.
What we see over here is a floating
palette that describes the color world
or transformation that we're going
to apply in real time on this video.
First of all, we have the source profile.
Following that,
we have an abstract profile,
which is currently set to none.
We can add a proofer profile to simulate
what it would look like on a press.
If anyone could figure out how
to print a movie onto a press,
maybe that would be useful.
Finally,
we can specify a destination profile,
which hopefully would be
the screen in this case,
but may also be another standard color
space if you're outputting it to disk.
So let me see if I can
give a brief example.
Let me start playing
this movie a bit here.
So.
But what we have is a movie here.
Let's see, I'll play it through.
And what I can do is at this point,
I can, let's say,
just change the source profile.
And it's kind of hard to see right
now because I have a wipe here
that's showing the before and after.
The before is on the left side and
the after is on the right side.
I can also change it vertically.
Another way I can view this
movie is if I hit the tab key,
I can show the before
and after side by side.
So let's do that for now.
So as you can see,
if I change different profiles,
you can get some subtle differences.
But where things really get exciting is
when we turn on the abstract profile.
Now instead of pulling an
abstract profile from disk,
what I'm actually doing here is
creating an abstract profile on
the fly based on the slider values.
So what I can do here is change these
slider values and it'll adjust the hue.
So for example,
let me advance the movie a bit here.
And so we got this screen here.
And let's say we want to change the
color of the screen from blue to purple.
So all we have to do
is change the hue knob.
And now what we're doing,
and you can see I'm doing
this real time here,
we can create a profile for every
time the slider value changes.
I'm creating a new abstract profile
and sending that resulting color
world to the OpenGL surface so that
then all subsequent pixels are mapped
according to that concatenated color.
So now we have a nice result here,
which is we've got a nice purple screen.
Let me play the movie
a little bit further.
And we'll see that there's a problem that
the shirt and the person's face is all,
everything's distorted.
So let's do something a
little bit more fancy here,
which is instead of applying the
hue change to the entire image,
what I'm going to do is limit the
range of colors that it's affected
to be just between in the blue range.
So now I can go back and play the movie.
And the guy's shirt looks fine,
but when we go back to seeing the screen,
it's purple.
And you can see it's doing
this all real time on the fly.
In fact, even if I can change saturation,
change it from extremely
saturated to black and white,
I can change the hue all real time.
So that's it.
So, with that, I have a few final slides.
For one thing,
places to go for more information on
ColorSync to get more technical details.
For one thing, for end user information,
you can go to www.apple.com
slash ColorSync to get all the
marketing information on ColorSync.
For developer SDK,
you can go to the developer SDK's URL.
Also, a good place to go for information
and to ask questions is to
the two ColorSync email lists.
There's a list for developers,
ColorSync dev, and a list for users
called ColorSync users.
And, of course,
if you have any comments or feedback
you'd like to provide to us,
feel free to send an email
to ColorSync at Apple.com.
Also, there's documentation,
both a reference and an
introduction to color management,
and there's some tech notes that
you might want to read as well.